And then the last thing we wanna do is
just make sure we in like right now we
have off ready to go.
But like we're not forcing
anybody to authenticate and
we're not protecting any routes.
So let's do that.
Let's protect some routes and
force people sign up.
So we will do that.
So the best way to do that is there's
actually a lot of ways to do it.
The best way in my opinion is
just to use the middleware.
So if you don't know what middleware is,
it's basically just
a function that you can use.
It's a function that you can run on
the edge in front of your deployment in
Next.js that will basically protect
any of the routes that you have and
run some type of check.
In this case, we can check to
see if someone is authenticated.
So it's just a function that runs
before any route is navigated to.
So in order to do that we need
to go to the root of our repo,
make a new file call it middleware.ts.
It's not a React file so this is the TS.
The name has to be called middleware, and
it has to be on the root of your file.
That's a convention,
that is not my opinion.
It has to be called middleware, and
it has to be the root on your repo.
All right, and then what we're gonna do,
we have this really
cool chart here that does some advanced
stuff, we're not gonna talk about that.
What we're really gonna do is just take
this authmiddleware that they have.
And we're just going to export that.
So let's do that.
So import the off.
Actually I'm just gonna type it out and
it should bring it in for me.
There we go.
Import off middleware from clerk
next js there was going to export.
The default off middleware,
it's a function where you can pass in
different types of configurations.
I think what we wanna pass
in is going to be like
public routes which should be an array.
There we go.
These are routes that we don't want.
We don't want to lock down, right?
Because if we lock down our homepage,
no one can ever see our website.
So in this case,
we wanna make a public route for slash.
So everything else is
going to be protected.
But that's the only route we
wanna protect is that one, or
that we don't wanna
protect is the homepage.
So we'll do that.
Then the next thing is,
it's just this regex right here.
I'm gonna copy this and put it in there.
And basically what this is saying,
so there's two ways to configure what
routes you want this middleware to run.
So you can prevent
the middleware from running,
you can prevent this because off
middleware returns a function.
So we can prevent this
function from running.
By putting a matcher here to determine
what we want this to run on or
what we don't want this to run on.
Or we can just skip this and we can just
write some code in here ourselves and
the middle will run on every single route.
But then we can write our own checks
to be like if request dot URL is this,
don't do anything if request dot
URL is this, then do something.
So many ways to do the same thing
programmatically or, this way.
I think it's better to do it this way
because you don't have to worry about any
logic inside of this function up here.
You don't have to worry
about any if statements.
And, cuz, like, if you're doing
expensive things in this middleware,
like making API calls,
making database calls.
You have to put that underneath your
checks it just gets really sloppy so
this just like this prevents dysfunctional
even running unless it matches here.
>> So basically we're saying is this
is just a regex that says pretty much
everything the homepage and
then like the API.
This TRPC thing is just like
some hipster version of RPC and
TypeScript that people are using today.
I'm sure someone's going to teach it or
use it soon.
It's pretty cool, but we're not using it.
Yeah, it's pretty much
just matching everything.
Okay, so we got all that set up.
From there,
we should mostly be good to go.
I think the only thing that we wanna do
next is probably set up some, here we go.
We mostly just wanna set up
these environment variables.
These environment variables are gonna
tell our sign in and sign up.
Where to go after they sign in and
sign up, basically.
So hey, I just signed a user up,
where do I go?
I just signed a user in,
where do I route them to?
So we're gonna copy that.
And I'm gonna head over to our env.local.
And I'm going to paste those in there.
So the reason these have
a prefix of next public.
Anybody know?
Anybody ever used Next.js know why
those have a prefix of next public?
And these other ones and
this one up here doesn't.
So any environment variable
you put your prefix with next
public is available to
you on the front end.
If you don't put next public,
you can't access it on a front end,
you can only access it on a server.
So the secret key is a secret key.
We don't want this on a front end,
so it can't be.
But anywhere next public,
you can do it on a front end.
So the sign-in URL is sign-in.
The sign-up URL is sign-up.
After someone signs in,
we want to send them to slash journal.
But after someone signs up, we actually
wanna send them to this new user thing,
this new user route that we, made the made
the second fork, we didn't make the route.
We didn't make the page yet.
And we'll talk about why we
need to do that in a minute.
Something to do with async behavior and
a race condition.
These are optional too.
You don't have to provide these you can
just pass them props to the sign in
component and a sign up component,
and it should do the same thing.
But I had like a bug when I was working on
this curriculum where I forgot to change
this to new user.
It was it was on something else.
But I passed the prop into
the sign up component to say, hey,
go to New User after sign up,
and it would never go.
And I just could not figure it out.
Like I was literally in
the source code of this SDK.
Like why is this not working?
And it was because this environment
variable takes precedent over a prop, and
it was something else, and
I just never thought to check it.
So, I was like, well, I'm just not
even gonna use the props anymore.
I'm just going to use
the environment variable.
So, that's why these are here.
So, the last thing we're gonna
do before we test this out,
because if someone signs up right now,
it's just going to navigate them.
It's gonna break because we don't
have a page for a new user.
So let's just go make a page for
a new user right quick.
We'll say page.tsx.
We won't worry about putting
anything in here right now.
Let's just get it to work so
we could actually test our
auth to see what might be broken,
so we can debug if we need to.
Hopefully, we don't.
Since I've spent so
much time hyping up clerk, and
I'll just return a div that says hi.
Cool.
All right, let's give it a try.
You may want to stop and start again just
to have those environment variables be
reinitialized, although I
don't think we need to.
I've just run into so many issues
where I had to reset like if I were
just restarted to fix some of the things.
I just, every time I changed
the config file the next config.
Every time I change a database schema,
every time I change an environment
variable, I just restart cuz it just
eliminates a lot of potential issues.
Now, if I go back to our app,
I try to reload here.
It's initializing and
the expected behavior happened.
We didn't get forced to a sign-up page
because we said this was a public route,
so that's great.
But now if I try to go to slash journal,
let's see what happens.
We immediately get redirected to sign in.
I don't have an account, so
I'm not going to sign in.
Instead, at the bottom,
I'm just gonna click sign up.
Redirects me to the sign up page here and
what you can do your email your password
or whatever or just continue with Google,
I'm just gonna continue with Google,
gonna click that,
and- Looks like it navigating
me to journal, which is fine.
We'll look at that in a minute, but
that's not what we wanna look at.
What we wanna look at instead is if you
go back to our clerk dashboard, it should
have went away from getting started and
it should have showed you this now.
Hey, what's some confetti?
And then you can see that there is
a user now that is you if you sign up,
so there you are, you're signed in,
you're ready to go.
I expected that to navigate to new user,
but for
some reason it went to slash journal.
Why did it do that?
Let's figure that out.
So I'm just gonna look for
a slash journal.
In here,
I don't have it anywhere other than, here.
So I don't know why it, I don't know
how we even knew what that was.
Because I didn't tell it anywhere.
So let's see if we can override
this with some of the props.
So in the props here I know
that there is a actually,
let's just go look at the docs.
I know that there is 2 things we wanna do,
so there's like an after sign up URL.
And then a redirect URL.
So I'm just gonna set both of
those to the exact same thing.
So after sign up URL, I want you to go
to slash new user and then redirect URL.
I also want you to go to,
wait, I know why I went.
I know why I went to Slides Journal.
I'll show you that in a second.
Slash new user,
is actually really smart way did it
like have an implement that yourself
as a headache, so let's try that again.
I'm already signed in so
I think it's just going to,
if I click try to sign up again,
yeah it'll just keep going to journal.
So until we add the sign
out functionality,
what you can do to sign out
is just open up your browser,
go to application, go to session,
storage, I'm sorry cookies.
Click on your cookies and you can just
clear out all your cookies here, and
it also adds a JWT in the local storage,
so you can delete that too.
Just delete your local storage
in your cookie storage and
that should effectively sign you out.
So now, when I go back here.
It goes to sign up.
But if you take a look
at the URL you can see.
The reason it tried to redirect me to
journal is because it kept track of
the URL that I came from, which was or
it kept track of the URL
that I was trying to go to.
When I click that button,
I tried to go to slash turtle.
So it kept track of that was like, hey,
this person try to go to slash journal.
So after they're done,
go to slash journal.
So that's what it's trying to do,
which is smart because I really liked
that flow from a UX perspective.
When you like,
I tried to go to this page, but
I'm not signed in let
me sign in right click.
And then I hate when it just like sent you
to another page that you were not trying
to go to like, that's not the page
that I was trying to go to like.
I wanted to go to this page so it keeps
track of the page you were intending to go
to and transfer that intent.
So but we we should have overwritten
that by adding the redirect URL here to
new user so no matter what's in
the URL it should ignore that, so
let's see what happens.
And no, it didn't, I think there's another
prop we have to add somewhere else.